# Autism-Spectrum-Disorder-Prediction
Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and Autism are both general terms for a group of complex disorders that are characterized by varying degrees of impairment in development. ASD is a disorder of neurodevelopment that is characterized by impaired social interaction and verbal and non-verbal communication. Individuals diagnosed may present restricted, repetitive, and/or excessive behaviour. Signs and symptoms tend to typically manifest between 2-3 years of age. Autism and ASD can impair social communication, reciprocal social interaction and can include the presence of stereotyped behaviour, narrow interests and limited engagement in activities. The early diagnosis of neurodevelopment disorders can improve treatment and significantly decrease the associated healthcare costs. In this project, we will use supervised learning to diagnose autism spectrum disorder  (ASD) based on behavioural features and individual characteristics. More specifically, we will build and deploy a neural network using the Keras API.

ASD symptoms range from mild to severe: mainly language impairment, challenges in social interaction, and repetitive behaviours. Many other possible symptoms include anxiety, mood disorders and Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD).

ASD has a significant economic impact in the healthcare domain, both due to the increase in
the number of ASD cases, and because of the time and costs involved in diagnosing a patient.
Early detection of ASD can help both patients and the healthcare sector by prescribing patients the therapy and/or medication they need and thereby reducing the long-term costs associated with delayed diagnosis. Thus, health care professionals across the globe have an urgent need for easy, time-efficient, robust and accessible ASD screening methods that can accurately predict whether a patient with certain measured characteristics has ASD and inform individuals whether they should pursue formal clinical diagnosis. However, challenges remain. Pursuing such research necessitates working with datasets that record information related to behavioural traits and other factors such as gender, age, ethnicity, etc. Such datasets are rare, making it difficult to perform thorough analyses to improve the efficiency, sensitivity, specificity and predictive accuracy of the ASD screening process. At present, very limited autism datasets associated with clinical or screening are available and most of them are genetic in nature. These data are extremely sensitive and hard to collect for social and personal reasons and the regulations around them.
